# hello_bronze
create a custom shader assignment for CPSC-486
Name: Victor G. Balcazar
Contact Info: victorbalcazar3@hotmail.com

Description: The purpose of this project is to make sure the student understands the differences between a gouraud shader and a blinn-phong shader. The assignment provides the student with an already made program that already contains a blinn-phong shader.
The project uses glsl 1.20 which means that the use of in and out variables still did not exist and were instead called varying variables, which served much the same purpose, only being slightly missnamed in my opinion. 
At first I was dumbfounded by what I was looking at since I had no clue how a shader worked. I continued like this for a few hours until I decided that reading the book was probably my best bet. I reread chapter 2, most of the words still meant little to me. so I decided go to the professor's office to see if he could explain the subject better to me.
This was the project I dreaded the most since I still didn't comprehend how a shader worked from a programmer's standpoint. That is until I finished the hello_gouraud project, which gave me a little more insight into how to approach the project. Before that I had tried my hand at the hello_camre project. It turned out to be much more of a challenge than I expected. That experience refreshed some of my linear algebra skills (what little I have) and after asking on the forums for help on the previous project I then looked at another post. His questons seemed reasonable and I wasn't sure I was doing it right but I gave my response nonetheless and disclaimed that I wasn't sure what I was doing. That remains true even now. 
I managed to get a color that, while not quite bronze or gold -a muted yellow really- was close enough to my sleep deprived eyes and called it a day and continued my work on the other midterm I had lined up and the other unfinished project. The next day with a clearer mind I realized something with the help of fellow students. I had made some royal missteps that somehow ended up giving me a somewhat acceptable answer. My assumption that I was suppose to make a calculation for each individual value in the color vector (r,g,b) was correct but I had somehow mistaken the pow function for something alien and did an erroneous calculation. Later on I discovered that I had also made an error when calculating the angle of cosine. I had used the normal vertex when it states the eye direction, I then used the light direction like the chump I am. I was doing this calculations inside the function that calculated color that was given to us, so I just added the parameter for eye direction and that was that.
